To explore different supervised
learning algorithms, we're going to use a combination
of small synthetic or artificial datasets as examples, together
with some larger real world datasets. Psychit learn has a variety
of methods in the SK learned datasets library to create
synthetic datasets. The synthetic dataset will use, for illustration purposes are typically
low dimensional examples. Because they only use a small number
of features, typically one or two. This makes them easy to explain and
visualize. Many real world datasets, on the other hand have a higher
dimensional feature space. In other words they have dozens,
hundreds, or even thousands, or millions of features. So some of the intuition we gain from
looking at low dimensional examples doesn't always translate to
high dimensional datasets, and we'll discuss that a bit more later. For example, high dimensional data sets
in some sense have most of their data in corners with lots of empty space and
that's kind of difficult to visualize. We'll go through some
examples later in the course. But the low dimensional
examples are still useful so that we can understand things like
how a model's complexity changes with changes in some key parameters So
for basic regression we'll start with the simple problem
that has one informative input variable. One noisy linear output and
100 data set samples. Here's a plot of a data set using
scatter plot with each point represented by one dot. The x-axis shows the future value, and
the y-axis shows the regression target. To create this we use the make regression
function in SK learned data sets. Here is the code in the notebook. To illustrate binary classification we
will include a simple two class dataset with two informative features. Here's a scatterplot showing each data
instance as a dot with the first feature value corresponding to the x-axis. And the second feature value
corresponding to the y-axis. The color of a point shows which
class that data instance is labeled. I'm calling this dataset simple
because it has only two features, both of which are informative. In this case, these two classes
are approximately linearly separable, which means that a basic linear classifier
placed between them does a pretty good job of discriminating
the points in the two classes. So turning to the notebook,
to create this data set we used to make classification function
in SK learn data sets. Creating 100 points that roughly group the
data samples into one cluster per class, with here a 10% chance of randomly
flipping the correct label of any point just to make it a little
more challenging the classifier. We'll also look at a more complex
binary classification problem that uses two features. But where the two classes are not
really linearly separable, instead forming into various clusters in
different parts of the feature space. This dataset was created in two steps. First using the make_blobs
function in SK learn datasets to randomly generate 100 samples
in 8 different clusters. And then by changing the cluster label
assigned by make_blobs, which is a number from 1 to 8, to a binary number by
converting it using a modulo 2 function. Assigning the even index points to class
0 and odd index points to class 1. To illustrate multi-class classification,
we'll use our familiar fruits dataset, which, as you may remember has four
features and four possible target labels. Here on the left, I'm showing the array
of scatter plots that we saw in week one that shows the relationship between all
possible pairs of features and the class labels, with the distribution of values
for each feature along the diagonal. To illustrate a real-world regression
problem, we'll use a dataset derived from the communities and
crime dataset in the UCI repository. Our dataset uses a subset of
the original features and target values. Which were originally created
from combining several U.S. government data sources,
like the U.S. census. Each data instance corresponds
to a particular geographic area, typically a town or a region of a city. Our version of this
dataset has 88 features that encode various demographic and social
economic properties of each location. With 1994 location data instances. The target value that we'll try to predict
is the per capita violent crime rate. To use this data set,
we use the load_crime_dataset function that's included with the share
utilities module for this course