Hi, and welcome to the applied machine
learning component of the University of Michigan's online course
in Applied Data Science. My name is Kevin Collins-Thompson and I'm
an Associate Professor of Information and Computer Science at
the University of Michigan. I'll be your instructor for
this part of the course. I have about 20 years of research and
development experience in applying machine learning to a wide variety of problems
in both academia and industry, everything from language tutoring
software to commercial search engines. This is an incredibly exciting time to
be involved in machine learning, and I hope this part of
the course inspires you to look more deeply into
this fascinating world. This week, you'll learn what machine
learning is and why it's important to data science, how machine learning is applied
to key problems in our information economy, and how to set up your first
machine learning application in Python. So what defines the field
of machine learning? In a lot of cases when a computing
problem needs to be solved, for example, storing and
retrieving data from a database, the way we often address it is to write
a program that manually specifies a series of programming steps that need to
be run to solve that particular problem. This works great for the vast number of computer science
problems that are out there. However, not all problems lend
themselves to being solved effectively by writing a handcrafted
program or set of rules. For example, how would you write down a
set of rules in a programming language for accurately converting
human speech to text? A process known as speech recognition
which is now available on millions of smart phones or used in customer
support systems all over the world. Given how a subtle and complex human
speech is with the huge variety of different pronunciations,
vocabulary, accents, and so forth. Writing a set of program rules by hand that could recognize portions
of an audio signal and decide which words were in the signal and
so forth would be a gargantuan task. And even then,
it would still likely be inflexible and not very robust at recognizing
different types of speech. Moreover, if we needed to customize the
system so it could recognize new words or other features that we hadn't encoded in
our existing rules, we'd have to write a whole new set of rules, which would
be a prohibitively difficult task. Machine Learning, on the other hand,
gives us the technology that allows us to automatically learn these complex rules
efficiently from labelled examples, called, training data,
in a way that is much more accurate and flexible than attempting to
program all the rules by hand. Moreover, since it's unlikely any future
examples we see would match exactly what was in the training set, a primary goal
of effective machine learning algorithms is to be able to generalize,
to correctly predict or recognize new objects that
weren't seen during training. So the basic problem of machine learning
is to explore how computers can program themselves to perform a task, and to improve their performance automatically
as they gain more experience. Now this experience can take the form of
data in a lot of different formats or situations, such as labeled examples that
are used to train the system's initial structure, like in email spam detection. A system could get feedback from the user. For example, a search engine gets clicks
on the search page or a system could get data from the surrounding environment
that's gathered over time. For example, self-driving cars
that can detect nearby objects and events and learn to move more reliably. To accomplish this goal effectively and
efficiently, Machine Learning draws heavily on
statistics and computer science. The statistical methods give
machine learning algorithms ways to infer conclusions from data and
to learn from data and also to estimate how reliable
those conclusions are. Computer science methods, on the other
hand, give machine learning algorithms the computing power to solve problems,
including effective large scale computational architectures and
algorithm for capturing, manipulating, indexing, combining and
performing predictions with data. Think about how quickly a commercial
search engine can match your query against billions of web pages and almost
instantly return a set of useful results. That's an ideal illustration of
the power of combining statistical methods with computer science. There are also growing connections between
machine learning and other fields, those that are really fascinating. For example the problem of how someone,
or an individual or a system can optimize their performance in
a given environment is also shared some what research that people have done in
biology on how organism forage for food. It also connects to research in
economics in how optimal pricing and market structures can be computed. Even psychology, especially psychology
where we have models and factors of human learning, and are using those to influence
the design in machine learning techniques. So this evolving field of machine
learning really brings together insights across multiple scientific fields,
and that's one of the things I find so fascinating about it. Machine Learning algorithms
are now involved in more and more aspects of everyday life from what
you read and watch, to how you shop, to who you meet and how you travel. And here just a few examples,
for example, fraud detection. Every time you buy something
using a credit card, machine learning algorithms immediately
check your purchase to verify whether or not this might be
a fraudulent transaction. To do this, these algorithms look at
features of the current transaction that you have just made,
such as time location, and amount. They make a prediction of whether
it's fraudulent or not based on whether that purchase is consistent with
the features of your previous purchases. The system also records any user feedback
on whether the transaction was in fact fraudulent. And it uses that feedback to make
better predictions in the future. Search and recommendation systems
are also a huge area of application for machine learning. And in fact, those machine learning algorithms are at
the heart of how commercial search engines work, starting with the moment
you begin typing in a query. So one algorithm might
monitor your keystrokes to predict the best queries to auto
complete while you're typing. And then once you've finished your query, some other machine learning
algorithms will be applied to determine the selection and ranking of
the webpages that you see for that query. Still other machine learning algorithms
will determine which ads if any, you see on the page, which related queries
the system suggests for you and so forth. In addition,
search engines typically use data about how you interact with the search
site, such as which pages you click, how long you read the pages to
improve their future effectiveness. In a similar way, movie recommendation
sites use machine learning algorithms to model what you liked in your past
reviews based on your past reviews. And your interaction
patterns with the site and how your preferences relate
to those of other users. And it uses this data to learn a model for
your personal taste to hopefully give you better choices that
keep you more engaged with the site or that lead you to make more
movie purchases over time. And then finally a third
example area that's really seen a significant improvement
in the past several years in terms of recognition quality,
speech and image recognition. So although researchers have been working
on speech and image recognition for decades, recently the development
of increased computing power, better algorithms including
the use of deep learning. And vastly increased volumes of data
have all led to a significant jump in accuracy and flexibility of recognition
algorithms in the last five years or so. Now recognition technology
is reliable enough and fast enough that it's used as
an essential feature of smartphones and home devices that can act on
spoken commands or questions. Computer vision and image recognition
can now give increasingly accurate identification of objects and
actions in images or video. Even for a while now, over 85% of
handwritten mail is sorted automatically with very high accuracy by
the United States Postal Service. There are very exciting advances in the
medical domain, where image recognition algorithms are being developed to
classify cancer cells as malignant or benign, estimate the best course
of personalized treatment or to find hard to detect
tumors in medical images. And of course, self-driving, or
autonomous vehicles make extensive use of real time image recognition and video
processing, as well as other technologies, such as reinforcement learning. Now these examples only scratch
the surface of how machine learning is being applied
in today's society. And, we'll encounter and work with some other examples during
the progression of this course. The name of this course module is
actually Applied Machine Learning. So, what does Applied part mean? When we designed this data science series,
we felt there was a need for a course that focused more
on how to properly apply and interpret the results from machine
learning algorithms at a high level and less on the technical details of exactly
how these algorithms work internally. There are a number of excellent existing
core machine learning courses that already provide that deeper level
of technical detail. And that detailed knowledge isn't
always necessary to work with machine learning algorithms, and
to use them for specific applications. In fact, there is a very exciting
trend happening where ready to use machine learning algorithms for
speech recognition, language translation, text classifications and many other tasks, are now being offered as web based
services on cloud computing platforms. Greatly increasing the audience of
developers that are able to use them and making it easier than ever to put together
solutions that apply machine learning at a high level. The following book, Introduction
to Machine Learning with Python, is not required to complete the course,
but we recommend it as an additional resource that may be useful to you as
you progress and for later reference. Like this course, the book focuses on
the practical details of building your own solutions to machine learning tasks
using Scikit-learn in Python. It provides further background
on machine learning concepts, more depth on specific topics
covered in this course, as well as a number of additional topics
and some additional coding examples.